README.md, before:

# MIB (Manager image builder)

`mib` build multiple images with dependencies with other images.

A multi-build is detect by change of a commit.

`mib` generate also a document with data specified in each directory.

## Use case

`mib` is very useful when you store all you Dockerfile in the same folder like this :
```
.
├── debian
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       └── bin
├── apline
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       └── config/
│── debian-nginx
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       └── config/
└── debian-nginx-php
    └── v1
        │── Dockerfile      
        └── php/
Or
.
├── debian
│   │── Dockerfile
│   └── bin
├── apline
│   │── Dockerfile
│   └── config/
│── debian-nginx
│   │── Dockerfile
│   └── config/
└── debian-nginx-php
    │── Dockerfile      
    └── php/
```

`mib` will help you to build image in the good order for build first the image parent and after children.
For example, if the image `debian` is parent of `debian-ngix` and `debian-nginx` is parent of `debian-nginx-php`,
`mib` will build all images in this order :

    1. `debian`
    2. `debian-ngix`
    3. `debian-nginx-php`

`mib` works with two modes :
* `build dirty` : get all files modified in repository (like git status), and will exclude ".md" and ".txt" extensions file and determine dependency between image
* `build commit [commit sha]` : get all files modified in commit change in repository, and will exclude ".md" and ".txt" extensions file and determine dependency between image

You can also generate README.md per all images to describe image like this :

```yaml
# Image : alexandreh2ag/mib:v1.0.0

## Parents
- [alexandreh2ag/alpine:v1.0.0](../../alpine/v1.0.0/README.md)
- [alpine:3.9](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine)

## Children
- [alexandreh2ag/mib:v1.0.0-dev](../../mib/v1.0.0-dev/README.md)

## Env Var
| Var Name | Value |
| -------- | ----- |
| GID  | Host group id (id -g)  |
| UID  | Host user id (id -u)  |

## Packages
| Var Name | Value |
| -------- | ----- |
| ca-certificates  |
| curl  |   |
| vim  |   |
| wget  |   |

## Alias
- foo/alpine:v1.0.0

File generated by mib v1.1.0 / February 07, 2019 12:44:17

```

This file will be generate with data your set in [mib.yml](doc/examples/mib.yml). This file is also used for build image.
So, if you want use `mib` you must add this file for all of your images like this :

```
.
├── debian
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       │── mib.yml
│       └── bin
├── apline
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       │── mib.yml
│       └── config/
│── debian-nginx
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       │── mib.yml
│       └── config/
└── debian-nginx-php
    └── v1
        │── Dockerfile
        │── mib.yml   
        └── php/
```
### Global configuration (optional)

`mib` can be configured to set log level or change default template used for README.md image.
For configure `mib` add [config.yml](doc/examples/config.yml) at the root of dir.

Currently, you can configure this parameters :

```yaml
build:
    extensionExclude: ".md,.txt" #default extension files that will be exclude when run `build` or `generate`
template:
    imagePath: "my-custom-image.tmpl" # Define a custom template for image
    indexPath: "my-custom-index.tmpl" # Define a custom template for index
```

## Usage

```help
Usage:
  mib [command]

Available Commands:
  build       build sub commands
    commit      Build image for specific commit
    dirty       Build image with change not committed
  commit      Commit all changes
  completion  Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell
  generate    generate sub commands
    all         Generate all images readme
    dirty       Generate image readme with change not committed
    index       Generate index readme
  help        Help about any command
  list        List all images of directory
  version     Show version info

Flags:
  -c, --config string   Define config path
  -w, --dir string      Define working dir (default "/home/alexandre/projects/labs/mib")
  -h, --help            help for mib
  -l, --level string    Define log level (default "INFO")
```

## Requirements

* Docker (26.0+)
* Git (2.25+)

### Packages 

```bash
sudo apt install -y qemu-user-static binfmt-support
```

## Development

* Generate mock:

  ```bash
  ./bin/mock.sh
  ```

* Build the project:

  ```bash
  go build .
  ```

* Run tests:

  ```bash
  go test ./...
  ```

## Production

* Run mib with docker:

  ```bash
  docker run -it -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock -v ${PWD}:/build alexandreh2ag/mib:${VERSION} mib --help
  ```

* Install binary to custom location:

  ```bash
  curl -L "https://github.com/alexandreh2ag/mib/releases/download/${VERSION}/mib_$(uname -s)_$(uname -m)" -o ${DESTINATION}/mib
  chmod +x ${DESTINATION}/mib
  ```

## Config file mib.yml

See documentation example for image configuration [here](doc/examples/mib.yml).

See documentation example for mib configuration [here](doc/examples/config.yml).

## Bash/ZSH Shell Completion

### Bash

Add in your ~/.bashrc :
```
eval "$(mib --completion-script-bash)"
```

### ZSH

Add in your ~/.zshrc :
```
eval "$(mib --completion-script-zsh)"
```

## Contributing

Refer to [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

MIT License, see [LICENSE](LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Update README with multi platform feature
Signed-off-by: alexandreh2ag <alexandre.haag90@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# MIB (Manager image builder)

`mib` build multiple images with dependencies with other images.

A multi-build is detect by change of a commit.

`mib` generate also a document with data specified in each directory.

## Use case

`mib` is very useful when you store all you Dockerfile in the same folder like this :
```
.
├── debian
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       └── bin
├── apline
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       └── config/
│── debian-nginx
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       └── config/
└── debian-nginx-php
    └── v1
        │── Dockerfile      
        └── php/
Or
.
├── debian
│   │── Dockerfile
│   └── bin
├── apline
│   │── Dockerfile
│   └── config/
│── debian-nginx
│   │── Dockerfile
│   └── config/
└── debian-nginx-php
    │── Dockerfile      
    └── php/
```

`mib` will help you to build image in the good order for build first the image parent and after children.
For example, if the image `debian` is parent of `debian-ngix` and `debian-nginx` is parent of `debian-nginx-php`,
`mib` will build all images in this order :

    1. `debian`
    2. `debian-ngix`
    3. `debian-nginx-php`

`mib` works with two modes :
* `build dirty` : get all files modified in repository (like git status), and will exclude ".md" and ".txt" extensions file and determine dependency between image
* `build commit [commit sha]` : get all files modified in commit change in repository, and will exclude ".md" and ".txt" extensions file and determine dependency between image

You can also generate README.md per all images to describe image like this :

```yaml
# Image : alexandreh2ag/mib:v1.0.0

## Parents
- [alexandreh2ag/alpine:v1.0.0](../../alpine/v1.0.0/README.md)
- [alpine:3.9](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine)

## Children
- [alexandreh2ag/mib:v1.0.0-dev](../../mib/v1.0.0-dev/README.md)

## Env Var
| Var Name | Value |
| -------- | ----- |
| GID  | Host group id (id -g)  |
| UID  | Host user id (id -u)  |

## Packages
| Var Name | Value |
| -------- | ----- |
| ca-certificates  |
| curl  |   |
| vim  |   |
| wget  |   |

## Alias
- foo/alpine:v1.0.0

File generated by mib v1.1.0 / February 07, 2019 12:44:17

```

This file will be generate with data your set in [mib.yml](doc/examples/mib.yml). This file is also used for build image.
So, if you want use `mib` you must add this file for all of your images like this :

```
.
├── debian
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       │── mib.yml
│       └── bin
├── apline
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       │── mib.yml
│       └── config/
│── debian-nginx
│   └── v1
│       │── Dockerfile
│       │── mib.yml
│       └── config/
└── debian-nginx-php
    └── v1
        │── Dockerfile
        │── mib.yml   
        └── php/
```
### Global configuration (optional)

`mib` can be configured to set log level or change default template used for README.md image.
For configure `mib` add [config.yml](doc/examples/config.yml) at the root of dir.

Currently, you can configure this parameters :

```yaml
build:
    extensionExclude: ".md,.txt" #default extension files that will be exclude when run `build` or `generate`
template:
    imagePath: "my-custom-image.tmpl" # Define a custom template for image
    indexPath: "my-custom-index.tmpl" # Define a custom template for index
```

## Usage

```help
Usage:
  mib [command]

Available Commands:
  build       build sub commands
    commit      Build image for specific commit
    dirty       Build image with change not committed
  commit      Commit all changes
  completion  Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell
  generate    generate sub commands
    all         Generate all images readme
    dirty       Generate image readme with change not committed
    index       Generate index readme
  help        Help about any command
  list        List all images of directory
  version     Show version info

Flags:
  -c, --config string   Define config path
  -w, --dir string      Define working dir (default "/home/alexandre/projects/labs/mib")
  -h, --help            help for mib
  -l, --level string    Define log level (default "INFO")
```

## Requirements

* Docker (26.0+)
* Git (2.25+)

### Packages 

```bash
sudo apt install -y qemu-user-static binfmt-support
```

### Docker multiple platform

For build an image for a different platform or multiples platform you must enable feature [containerd-snapshotter](https://docs.docker.com/storage/containerd/).

## Development

* Generate mock:

  ```bash
  ./bin/mock.sh
  ```

* Build the project:

  ```bash
  go build .
  ```

* Run tests:

  ```bash
  go test ./...
  ```

## Production

* Run mib with docker:

  ```bash
  docker run -it -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock -v ${PWD}:/build alexandreh2ag/mib:${VERSION} mib --help
  ```

* Install binary to custom location:

  ```bash
  curl -L "https://github.com/alexandreh2ag/mib/releases/download/${VERSION}/mib_$(uname -s)_$(uname -m)" -o ${DESTINATION}/mib
  chmod +x ${DESTINATION}/mib
  ```

## Config file mib.yml

See documentation example for image configuration [here](doc/examples/mib.yml).

See documentation example for mib configuration [here](doc/examples/config.yml).

## Bash/ZSH Shell Completion

### Bash

Add in your ~/.bashrc :
```
eval "$(mib --completion-script-bash)"
```

### ZSH

Add in your ~/.zshrc :
```
eval "$(mib --completion-script-zsh)"
```

## Contributing

Refer to [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

MIT License, see [LICENSE](LICENSE.md).
